---
layout: post
title:  "The Journey is the Goal"
author: Dan
date:   2015-12-28 21:40:49 -0500
categories: jekyll update
---
Imagine yourself in a room with a desk, a chair, an empty book, some supplies, and a single door. You walk up to the door and attempt to turn the knob but find that the door is locked. Upon further inspection you see that there is a keyhole below the door knob. You look around the room in search of the key and find a note on the desk that reads, “I have failed to make this key, it seems to be beyond what I am capable of given my limited time…”. Your heart sinks into your chest at the thought of being confined to this room for the rest of your life. You turn the note over and see the early schematics of a key from the person who was last in this room. Looking through the supplies on the desk you come to the conclusion that everything you need is already here to make a key, all it will take is a fresh pair of eyes and some time to learn and build upon the schematics that lay before you. You get to work.

A sensation of relief overwhelms your body as you begin to believe that you may be able to make a key that will open the door and allow you to leave the room you are currently limited to. Through many years of hard work and iterating on failed attempts you finally find the exact right shape key for that specific door. You jump with joy and excitement in the realization just you had just accomplished something that has never been done before in this one small room, you made a key that will open the only door that is known to the room. You turn the knob and open the door.

On the other side of the door is another room that is a bit bigger than the last. You walk into the new room and see that there is another door which is also locked. This door, however, is different from the last. The last door was brown and rectangular in shape. This one is red and oval in shape. It also has two keyholes, one on top of the other. You pull out the key that you used on the first door and insert it into the top key hole. It doesn’t work. You then try the bottom keyhole and turn the key, it works! But it is no good, you can’t open the door without unlocking the top lock as well. You go back to the first room and look to see if any papers mentioned a second key, or any schematics on a second key. There was nothing noted about this.

You don’t feel overwhelmed by this since you made a key for the last room. You already know how to make a key so this shouldn’t be a problem. You move your things into the new room and start working on a key for the second lock. You inspect the lock and after some time begin feel uncertain, this lock seems different from the last. You aren’t sure exactly what is different, but know that something isn’t right. They are both keyholes but for some reason trying to make a key with the same methods as the first door isn’t working. You look over the schematics of the first key and try to figure out what you are missing. Is there some fundamental knowledge of key making that you are missing? 

From here you know that your only option is to work backwards. You start studying the top keyhole and compare it to the keyhole you know. You hypothesize and come up with ideas for what may work and why it should work. You test your hypothesis and reiterate from there. You have no idea what’s on the other side of the door but that doesn’t deter you from trying. You are driven by your insatiable curiosity, determined to grow beyond the limitations of the room to which you are currently confined to. 

Beyond this room could be an even bigger room, also with a door, but maybe this time with 3 locks, or 5, or a seemingly infinite amount of locks. Maybe the next room is even smaller, or perhaps it will be empty with no doors at all. Could it be possible that unlocking the door will not only open to a new room but also create a new door in a previous room that was not noticed before? You have no clue. Despite the fact that it is impossible to know whats on the other side,  and not even having a measurable level of certainty as to whether what you are doing has any meaning or value at all, you continue onwards.

Reflecting on the past you realize that in the beginning all you cared about was leaving the first room. You were motivated by the fear of being trapped, being forever confined to such a small space. The goal then was to leave the room, hoping that the next room would hold something new and better than where you were. So you pushed yourself to obtain the knowledge and experience that was necessary to leave that room. Once you left that room you found yourself in another room, with new obstacles and a greater sense of uncertainty. 

This reflection led to the realization that the end result is not and cannot be the most important thing in your life, for the end result is not something that can even be known. To you, what you enjoy the most, is growing and expanding your knowledge for its own sake. To you, the journey is the goal.